hi I'm Richard ah I'm a journalist and a
food blogger last time I taught you how
to make harissa today I'm going to show
you how to use it we are going to make
Lebanese chicken skewers using the
harissa as a marinade and as I did so
stay tuned don't go anywhere
so for the Lebanese chicken skewers
we're going to need the following things
1 teaspoon of cumin powder 1 teaspoon of
salt 1 teaspoon of paprika 2 teaspoons
of sumac if you don't have sumac it's
alright because we're going to be using
harissa about two heaped tablespoons two
garlic pods three cardamoms Jews from
half a lime three tablespoons of yogurt
and three tablespoons of olive oil and
of course we need the chicken we're
going to use three chicken breasts the
marinade will be perfect for it but I'm
going to show you that later I'm going
to show you how to make the marinade
first so I'm going to start with the
marinade first I am going to use all the
yogurt about two tablespoons two heaped
tablespoons of the harissa
cumin powder salt sumac paprika I'm
going to crush the garlic and the
cardamom together in a mortar mortar and
pestle and add it to a marinade we will
add some of the oil when I add the rest
of the chicken I'll see if I clean more
and I'm going to use the rest of the
lemon and give it a good mix you can see
it all coming together that's about it
now we move on to the chicken so I'm
going to show you a little trick with
the chicken so that it makes your life
easier all you do is put your chicken on
the cutting board and take a cling film
piece of cling film and just yank it
over the cutting board don't eat I have
to cut it press it down take a meat
mallet use the smooth side it's very
important just give it a good bit the
reasons I'm going to do this is also
because you want the chicken to be even
sized and cook through well you're going
to use the sharper edge this will help
tenderize the chicken if this side is
called the tenderizer
just a couple of hits and you're good to
do and all you have to do is snip the
spit off and that's it now for the
chicken I'm going to cut this in
diagonal strips and then cut it into
bite-sized pieces
once we are done with this I am going to
throw it all into the marinate you need
to marinate this for at least half an
hour so that all the flavors come
through beautifully otherwise you can
also marinate it for about two days in
the fridge or for six months in the
freezer I do that a lot because it makes
my life easier and in the meanwhile I
have this skewer lying over here which I
have soaked in water for an hour because
it's very important to soak your skewers
otherwise you will be in a lot of mess
when you're cooking it on heat so my
marinade is rest ready now I'm going to
set this aside this chicken has been
resting for two hours in the marinade
all we have to do is now put it through
these skewers which have also been
sitting in water for to us very simple
you just need take the sharp side and
take a piece of chicken and just needle
it through we need about five pieces in
each skewer only because if you put
anything more it will not cook through
well and it'll be just too crowded so
I'd suggest five is good you can even
put a little bit of capsicum or some
bell peppers or you can even put some
onions if you'd like just to give it
another edge once the skewers are done
you can let them rest if you'd like or
if you prefer to eat them immediately it
works perfectly fine
so now it's time to cook these cures
I've got a grill pan with me which I'm
going to oil liberally just so that it
doesn't stick now if you don't have a
grill pan
it's really quite okay you can use a
dosa tava you can use a omelette pan you
can use a regular pan as long as it's
nonstick because nonstic will make your
life easier you can also pop this in the
oven it will work just fine
so once the pan is really hot and oily
you can feel is getting hotter all you
have to do is take the skewer and put it
diagonally across it should make this
sizzling noise if it doesn't sizzle then
your pan isn't hot enough
with about two minutes done you need to
just make sure that all your chicken has
been you know sit on it and over you'll
see what I mean has been feared if you
cleared your chicken that means you've
locked in all your juices and that's
very important I'm going to turn this
around just give this a good go and I'm
going to lower the flame it's going to
take me about five to six minutes to
make sure my skewers are ready I'll only
know when I poke through a nice but I'll
show you that so I'm going to turn these
cubes for you to see how this coloring
threw out at this point which is nearly
eight minutes done focus unused fewer
and check if it's done if it's still
sink which this chicken is we need
another couple of minutes we can focus
different places to know what's cooking
faster or slower this is nearly done
you can see how beautifully these have
colored this turn this off if you don't
have a pair of tongs just use a flat
spatula like this it will work for you
now it's a great idea to rest these
chickens for about 4-5 minutes before
you serve them that way all the juices
will accumulate and you'll get a deadly
flavor chicken so here are my Lebanese
chicken skewers with harissa if you like
the recipe subscribe to India Food
Network and don't forget to send us your
feedback
you